
Hello dear creator.

I hope that you are enjoying the plugin.

This document will teach you how to create and set the config of your voice pack, if you want to record a voice or use AI, you are free to do it, but follow this instructions.

The plugin uses a system which loads every single callout from 1 folder it calls "Active", in there are all the sounds and the "FO Voicepack conf.lua" file
which sets the config of the pack into the plugin, you need to save the folder with other name than "Active".

Each sound file must be in this specific format:
WAV file (.wav)
16 bit PCM Coding
22050 Hz Frequency

There is a file in this folder (FO PM/Voices/Create Voice Pack) it calls "Voices list.txt", in there you will find a list with every speech and callout that the pulgin use
Each line it looks like this:

==>    RETRACT & DISARM    |   RETRACT AND DISARM    <==

The first part, before the "|", it's the file name, this is the name that the file is going to be saved, for this example: "RETRACT & DISARM.wav"
¡IMPORTANT! the name MUST BE IDENTICAL, with capitals, symbols and spaces, if not, the plugin will not find the file.
And the second part, after the "|", it's the audio, the speech or callout that is going to be recorded or saved in the file, in this case the "retract and disarm" speech.

    ARM <=== If you find something like this in the file, without the "|", it means that the speech and the file name is the same, for this example the speech is "ARM", and the file will be "ARM.wav"

In the same folder (FO PM/Voices/Create Voice Pack) is another file named "Config Template.lua" in there you will find:

FOPM_voicepack_name = "TEMPLATE"  <=== That is your pack name, is at your own and it will be showed in the plugin, in the settings page. Be sure that the name is between "", if not, it will cause a crash.

And that is all you have to write. NEW IN V1.2: you no longer take note of the duration of anything.
When the pack is loaded the plugin opens every .wav and reads its exact duration from the file itself, and uses it to create the delay that
prevents the callouts from overlapping. So you just record the file, name it right, and you are done. If you re-record a callout later and it
comes out longer or shorter, the plugin picks up the new length on its own, there is nothing to keep in sync.

If you ever want one callout to be spaced out by something other than its real length, you can still force it in the config file and it
overrides the measured value:

    FO_voices_directory.OFF.del = 0.856

The time is set in seconds (s) not in miliseconds, just for your notice. Take note that the text in capitals (OFF) are the callout in reference.
You will almost never need this, leave the section empty and the real durations are used.

When you have all your files ready, put it in a folder all together, without subfolders, (Name of your choice), and the config file save it in the same folder with the name "FO Voicepack conf.lua"

If you want to test it, just follow the same steps to set/load a new Voice Pack, copy all the files from your folder and put it into the "Active" folder, reload the lua script and enjoy.

NOTES:
1. Be carefull with all the names, capitals, symbols, spaces, all of them, if you dont set the names correctly, the system will not recognize the files and not will load, causing a crash when try to play it.
2. Check that the files are truly a WAV file, .wav 16 bit PCM, check twice if its necesary, if there is a error with the format, the system will not load the sound and crash when try to play it
   The 22050 Hz is highly recommended to save RAM space, if you export the sound with a higher Frequency, the system will be load it but it will take more unnecessary space in memory.
   If a file is not a readable PCM .wav the plugin cannot measure it, it will say so in the X-Plane log (Log.txt, look for the "FO/PM Audio" lines) and fall back to a 1 second delay for that
   callout, so if one of your callouts sounds cut off or rushed, check the log first, it will name the file.
3. The "Voices list.txt" is internally divided into multiple sections, this is just for structure and organization, for you and I, use it to ensure that you have all the sounds and have a order.
4. The sections "BRAKE TEMP WARNING", "POST BRIEFING", "READY SPEECH" and "READY FOR T/O" are customizable, it means that if you want to put another speech than specefied, you are free to do it
   You don't have to worry about the duration, the plugin measures whatever you record, but do be carefull with the number, each category has multiple speeches that the systems randomly choose only one per play,
   if you put less, at some point the system might choose a nil speech causing a crash, and if you put more, the system only will load and play the established number.
   The others sections are according with the SOP and are mandatory as specified.

That's it, now you can produce your own Voice pack to use it in your flights, share it with your partners and/or public to share with the comunity.
I will be waiting for your packs to try it.

Enjoy them, enjoy the plugin and have safe flights :)

Best Regards: Admiral Skippie